----------------------------------------------------------------------
                              DICE 2018
  9th Workshop on Developments in Implicit Computational complExity
       http://cl-informatik.uibk.ac.at/users/zini/events/dice18

                         Thessaloniki, Greece
                         April 14 - 15, 2018
                  (a satellite event of ETAPS 2018)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

SCOPE

The area  of Implicit  Computational Complexity  (ICC) has  grown from
several  proposals  for using  logic  and  formal methods  to  provide
languages  for complexity-bounded  computation  (e.g. PTIME,  LOGSPACE
computation).  Its aim  is to  study computational  complexity without
reference  to  external  measuring conditions  or  particular  machine
models,   but   only   in    terms   of   language   restrictions   or
logical/computational principles implying complexity properties.

This workshop focuses on ICC  methods related to programs (rather than
descriptive methods). In this  approach one relates complexity classes
to restrictions on programming  paradigms (functional programs, lambda
calculi,  rewriting  systems),  such   as  ramified  recurrence,  weak
polymorphic types,  linear logic and linear  types, and interpretative
measures. The two main objectives of this area are:

  * to find  natural implicit characterizations of  various complexity
    classes  of  functions,  thereby  illuminating  their  nature  and
    importance;
  * to  design  methods suitable  for static  verification  of program
    complexity.

Therefore ICC connects both to the  study of complexity classes and to
static program  analysis, in  particular, resource analysis.  With the
aim to more closely bring  together researches from these fields, this
year contributions related to program's resource analysis are strongly
encouraged.

The workshop  is open to contributions  on various aspects of  ICC and
resource analysis, including (but not exclusively):

  * type systems for controlling/inferring/checking complexity;
  * logical and  machine-independent  characterisations  of complexity
    classes;
  * programming languages for complexity-bounded computation;
  * logics closely related to complexity classes;
  * theoretical foundations of program complexity analysis;
  * static resource analysis and practical applications;
  * semantics of complexity-bounded computation;
  * applications of implicit complexity to security;
  * termination and resource analysis for probabilistic programs;
  * semantic methods to analyse resources.


SUBMISSIONS

Authors are invited to submit an extended abstract of up to 5 pages by
31 January,  2018.  Abstracts must be  written in English and  must be
prepared  using  the   LaTeX  LIPIcs  style  template   of  2016  (see
http://www.dagstuhl.de/en/publications/lipics).     Submissions    are
handled via the DICE 2018 EasyChair page:

https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=dice2018 .
   
Submissions  will be  judged on  originality, relevance,  interest and
clarity.  Accepted  abstracts will be  presented at the  workshop, and
will  be made  available through  the workshop's  webpage.  It  is not
intended to  preclude later  publication at another  venue.  Abstracts
can contain material already  published elsewhere.  Preference will be
given to abstracts containing novel work (including work in progress).


IMPORTANT DATES

Paper submission      31 January, 2018
Notification          25 February, 2018
Final versions due    11 March, 2018
Workshop date         April 14-15, 2018


CONFERENCE VENUE

The workshop  will be  held as  a satellite  workshop of  the European
Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of Software 2018 (ETAPS 2018)
which takes place in Thessaloniki, Greece.


PROGRAM COMMITTEE

Martin Avanzini (France, chair)
Flavien Breuvart (France)
Florian Frohn (Germany)
Cynthia Kop (Netherlands)
Olivier Laurent (France)
Van Chan Ngo (USA)
Romain Péchoux (France)
Luca Roversi (Italy)
